Flip test strategy (#11)
AI4VBH/FLIP: documentation/test_strategy.md

    - [Benchmark Testing](#benchmark-testing)
    - [Load Testing](#load-testing)
    - [Accessibility Testing](#accessibility-testing)
- [Test Design](#test-design)
  - [Agile Test Plans](#agile-test-plans)
  - [Gherkin Syntax](#gherkin-syntax)
  - [Acceptance Test Driven Development (ATDD)](#acceptance-test-driven-development-atdd)
    - [Example Mapping](#example-mapping)
- [Test Process](#test-process)
- [Test Deliverables](#test-deliverables)
  - [Sprint Test Report](#sprint-test-report)
  - [Milestone Test Report](#milestone-test-report)
  - [Others](#others)
- [Test Tools](#test-tools)
- [Defect Management and Triage Process](#defect-management-and-triage-process)
  - [Bug Tickets](#bug-tickets)
  - [Defect Dashboard](#defect-dashboard)
  - [Defect Calls](#defect-calls)
  - [Defect Report](#defect-report)
  - [Defect KPI Report](#defect-kpi-report)
  - [Severity Categorisations](#severity-categorisations)
- [Environments and Data](#environments-and-data)
  - [AIDE](#aide)
  - [FLIP](#flip)
- [Scope](#scope)
  - [In Scope](#in-scope)
  - [Out of Scope](#out-of-scope)
- [Roles and Responsibilities](#roles-and-responsibilities)

#
# Executive Summary

> Answer Digital promotes a collaborative testing culture. This will be achieved by implementing an Acceptance Test Driven Development (ATDD) automation framework. Tests will be created in example mapping sessions and will focus on testing the behaviour of a feature through test scenarios written in plain English. This will enable non technical stakeholders to review and help create automation test scenarios. Increasing the visibility of the test scenarios will establish test transparency and shorten UAT cycles as stakeholders have reviewed and defined the test coverage. Test Scenarios will be attached to User Stories and reports will be produced to demonstrate that the agreed coverage is executed for every release.

Reviewer: ```suggestopm
Answer Digital (AD) promotes a collaborative testing culture. This will be achieved by implementing an Acceptance Test Driven Development (ATDD) automation framework. Tests will be created in example mapping sessions and will focus on testing the behaviour of a feature through test scenarios written in plain English. This will enable non technical stakeholders to review and help create automation test scenarios. Increasing the visibility of the test scenarios will establish test transparency and shorten UAT cycles as stakeholders have reviewed and defined the test coverage. Test Scenarios will be attached to User Stories and reports will be produced to demonstrate that the agreed coverage is executed for every release.
```

#
# Document Purpose

This document details the test practises to be undertaken by Answer Digital and the AI Centre in order to deliver the FLIP and AIDE solutions. It defines the test approach, test objectives and how those objectives will be achieved. It is to be used by FLIP and AIDE stakeholders to remove any ambiguity in the approach to quality assurance. It will be used by QA engineers who will plan and execute tests to a high standard and in a timely manner. 

This document will continue to be updated throughout the lifetime of the project, drawing on improved levels of knowledge and insight on requirements for ensuring quality of the delivered solutions. This information will be maintained in a shared knowledge repository, utilising Atlassian Confluence.

#
# Project Overview

The London Medical Imaging & AI Centre for Value Based Healthcare have commissioned an AI programme involving a consortium of 10 NHS Trusts, with the objective of increasing efficiency and improving patients’ outcomes through advanced diagnostics and identification of personalised treatments.

> King’s College London and Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust are leading the consortium to develop an artificial intelligence based Federated Learning and Interoperability Platform (FLIP) for diagnostic imaging, and an Artificial Intelligence Deployment Engine (AIDE) for real world AI clinical deployment. This platform will provide the toolset for the AI Centre, enabling researchers and clinicians to transform and deploy advanced diagnostic pathways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
King’s College London (KCL) and Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust (GSTT) are leading the consortium to develop an artificial intelligence (AI) based Federated Learning and Interoperability Platform (FLIP), and AIDE, an AI deployment engine, for real world AI clinical deployment. These platforms will provide the toolset for the AI Centre, enabling researchers and clinicians to transform and deploy advanced diagnostic pathways.
```

The programme is split into the following components:

> - **AI Deployment Engine (AIDE)**: enabling NHS Trusts to deploy AI products in clinical practice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **AIDE**: enabling NHS Trusts to deploy AI products in clinical practice.
- **FLIP**: enabling NHS Trusts to make their data accessible, without compromising patient confidentiality to develop AI tools.
```

> - **AI Deployment Engine (AIDE)**: enabling NHS Trusts to deploy AI products in clinical practice.
> - **Federated Learning and Interoperability Platform (FLIP)**: enabling NHS Trusts to make their data accessible, without compromising patient confidentiality to develop AI tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **AIDE**: enabling NHS Trusts to deploy AI products in clinical practice.
- **FLIP**: enabling NHS Trusts to make their data accessible, without compromising patient confidentiality to develop AI tools.
```

## Functional Testing

Functional testing will be carried out in line with the features being delivered. The type of testing required will be agreed before development work is started. 

## Unit Testing

Answer Digital keeps a very high standard of unit test code coverage. Unit tests will be written alongside feature development and reviewed as part of a pull request. Unit tests will be executed before code is merged into develop to ensure there is no regression in expected functionality.

## Database Testing

Database testing will involve checking the data integrity of any databases for both FLIP and AIDE solutions. Automated tests will be created to check that the databases adhere to the correct schema and the expected data is mapped  correctly. The tests will cover the following:

- Schema / Mapping validation
- Data transformation validation
- Stored procedure and view testing
- Manual verification of any PII masking

> - Non-Functional inc. Security and Benchmark testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Non-Functional, incuding Security and Benchmark testing
```
